[m1
MADELINE:
I didn't know anything about the
safe-deposit box until I saw the will.
I've had all the necessary
papenNork certified.
The trust
and the death certificate.
The papenNork is in order.
But to access your husband's box,
you will need the key.
Is there anything else?
No, thank you.
I'm terribly sorry for your loss,
Mrs. Reddington.
[m1
[ALARM RINGING]
The box in Istanbul.
Hm?
It's been cleared out.
This was left behind.
l was just starting to feel
the endorphins vibrating in my spleen.
[SOFT JAZZ MUSIC PLAYING
OVER SPEAKERS]
The key.
How did you get it?
Macau. Last winter.
I've always hated Macau.
No, thank you.
The documents in the box
are worth over 10 million.
You stood me up in Florence.
I had to get your attention somehow.
l have a proposition.
In that case, perhaps we should
move to your room.
I'll take the check.
[m1
Ha-ha-ha. Right. No. Okay, sure.
Yeah, no, I'll talk to you soon. Right.
Oh, that was Brian.
He and Katie say hi.
Did you tell him?
Why would I tell him?
I thought he'd ask.
ljust told him it's taking longer
than we expected.
I know this is hard.
We spent six months
talking about adoption.
Another year
going through the process.
I know. I'm sorry.
Yeah, I'm sorry too.
Katie's pregnant.
[m1
That's great.
Mm-hm.
We should, um, get them something.
Have them over for dinner?
Wait. Tom, don't just walk away
while we're talking.
She's breathtakingly
unattractive, but she's worth
over 40 million dollars.
The only Vermeer in private hands.
That's considered a masterpiece?
Last night, I got up
for a scoop of orange sherbet
and she caught my eye.
ljust stood here in the dark
squinting at her.
Poor thing ruined my appetite.
Even after I went back to bed,
all I could hear was the hideous
music she must be playing.
Didn't sleep a wink.
Why did you buy it?
Oh, my God, no. She's not mine.
She belongs to some hedge fund
manager who lives here.
I thought you lived here.
Well, for now.
The owner's been on vacation ever
since the SEC started its investigation.
I've never met the man,
but his housekeeper is an old friend.
Please.
Do you have any idea
how much the US. government
has spent on signals intelligence
in the past year?
No.
Your country has become a nation
of eavesdroppers.
Frequency domains, triangulation,
satellites, crypto-whatever.
You've forgotten that what matters
most is human intelligence.
Alliances, relationships, seduction.
Madeline Pratt is a master--
Madeline Pratt?
Madeline Pratt--
Is a thief.
And a woman...
of singular talents.
And now you want something
of hers and you expect
the FBI to help you get it.
It was the right decision...
not to have the baby.
What did she take from you?
[m1
I'm sorry for your suffering.
Madeline Pratt. How do we find her?
Finding her is easy.
Catching her is difficult.
Luckily, she's asked me
to help her plan a heist.
To steal what?
NOVAK:
The Effigy of Astarte.
The effigy was thought to be lost,
disappeared from the
British Museum in 1983.
Two months ago, it pops up at an
estate sale in Henderson, Kentucky.
The feds raided the auction
and paraded it back to the Syrians.
Ah. Here it is, the effigy.
Novak, I have friends who are looking
for this funny little statue,
and they're not interested
in antiquities.
What is the real story?
The Kungur Six.
It's said that when
the Cold War was ending,
its owner hid a list inside the effigy,
a list of Soviet spies.
Why is that relevant today?
The Kungur Six are still active
and are said to be responsible
for some of the most
damaging intelligence breaches
in the past 30 years.
Find the effigy and you find them.
Finding them would be the Holy Grail
of US. counterintelligence.
You allowed him to vet
everyone that works here?
I made no promises.
It was a precondition of his return
that aside from security
and principal staff,
everyone else has to be off-site.
I agreed to his terms
to get him in here.
Where we go from here is up to me.
Excuse me.
Ha-ha-ha. That's great.
Harold, look at you.
Sit down.
No, no, no. I'm fine,
thank you. I was just looking
at Charlene and the kids.
How old are they now?
The kids, not Charlene.
Diane Fowler. Where is she?
I have no idea.
And frankly, I'm flummoxed
as to why you would even care.
You expect me to believe
you walk in here after she vanishes
and there's no connection?
Has Diane gone missing?
Perhaps you should ask Agent Malik.
She works for the woman, doesn't she?
I've had no contact.
Well, there you go.
COOPER: You made it clear.
You thought we had a mole.
And you wouldn't set foot inside
until that mole was captured or dead.
Who decided on this paneling?
You told us you wouldn't come in
until the mole was caught.
I said nothing of the kind.
You said our house wasn't clean. Is it?
I suppose you'll have to ask
Diane Fowler when you find her.
When we find out what's happened
to her and we will find out,
if you had anything to do with it,
you're gonna spend the rest of
your life in a box.
You smell nice. Something new?
Did you hear me?
Madeline Pratt.
What about her?
RAYMOND:
This is the Madeline Pratt
you all know and love.
Politically active, influential,
a good citizen.
What you don't know
is the Madeline Pratt that I love.
Six million in diamonds stolen
from a De Beers outpost in the Congo.
Security fibers used in printing
the Czech koruna,
taken from a mint in Prague and used
to produce counterfeit bank notes.
The Madeline Pratt you know
fosters relationships
with incredibly powerful people.
The one you don't
exploits those relationships
in ways that impact national security.
We can'tjust arrest her.
We have no evidence.
What you do have is an opportunity,
which brings us back
to the Effigy of Astarte.
Madeline feels her profile is too high
right now to steal it herself,
so she's asked for my help.
Where is the effigy?
Secure wing in the
Syrian embassy, for now.
But it will likely be repatriated
at any moment,
which means Maddie
is rushed and vulnerable.
She's trying to make a grab that would
normally take months to plan.
Do the Syrians know
what's in the effigy?
If they did,
it would be in Damascus by now.
RAYMOND:
I can only assume, Harold, that
Madeline has a Russian patron,
since it's the Russians who want to
protect the identities of the Kungur Six.
I'm not sanctioning an op
of you going in to steal anything,
let alone something
that may affect security.
I'm flattered that you think I'm up to it,
but thieving is not my strongest suit.
Luckily, we have
an ace of spades among us.
Isn't that right, Agent Keen?
[m1
COOPER:
What's he talking about?
Is there something you want to tell us?
No, sir.
Your father's criminal record didn't
show up on your background report.
Maybe yours is missing too.
I don't have a criminal record.
You never committed a crime,
or you were never caught?
Yes. I believe my work
speaks for itself.
Sir, I can do this.
All right. We take the case.
Understand, if you do this,
you're gonna be on foreign soil.
If something goes wrong,
we can't protect you.
I need to know about you,
how you respond under pressure.
This is an embassy.
Security, cameras,
armed guards everywhere.
One mistake and you go to prison.
Nicole here is as calm as a Hindu cow.
Tell her that story about Frank.
[m1
Who's Frank?
A guy I knew.
What story?
We met in high school. We grifted.
Small jobs, really, just whatever
we had to do to pay the rent.
Tell her about Omaha.
I was 17. There was a drugstore.
Thursday night.
They made bank deposits on Friday.
I was the lookout.
The night manager came back.
He forgot his glasses.
I gave the signal, but nothing.
I'd convinced myself that Frank was
the only thing I had in the world,
so the night manager
was an easy decision.
What did you--?
I seduced him into the alley.
And then what?
I played him for a little bit,
then I kissed him off, told him
he'd get more next week.
And Frank and I went away.
And lived happily ever after. The end.
I thought you
didn't believe in happily ever after.
I didn't come here to audition.
Wait. The job. It's yours.
I don't want the job.
Call somebody who does.
How did you get my phone?
What if I paid you double?
See, this is what I love about the
two of you. Headstrong, yet vulnerable.
Confident but cautious.
I think you're gonna get along great.
[m1
MADELINE:
Your name will be on the guest list.
The statue's in a UL-approved Class 1
vault situated in a strong room
one level below the ground floor.
How long will it take to breach?
An autodialer can circumvent
the electronic keypad
in two, three minutes tops.
I'll supply equipment
that gets through a detector.
What about physical security?
There are two guards stationed outside
that strong room, armed and mobile.
They do a hall sweep
every 20 minutes.
When they take their patrol at 9:20,
you'll have 10 minutes.
How do I get in?
Dirar Man/van, embassy official.
He has the security credentials
youilneed
to get to the structure's
classified lower level.
He takes a coffee break
every day at 4 pm,
wears his ID on the lapel
of his jacket,
easy enough to unclip
in a standard brush pass.
This lift needs to be round-trip,
not one-way. Can't raise any flags.
I know someone
who can clone his badge
before Marwan
can return to the embassy.
Okay, here we go.
[BEEPING]
You good?
I will be in 90 seconds.
What's that?
It's Madeline Pratt's SIM card.
I swiped it when I palmed her phone.
I want to know who she talks to, why.
You know how to palm a phone?
How will you return his badge?
I won't. You will.
In a second brush pass
before he re-enters the building.
He's coming.
We have about 15 seconds. Hurry.
How are we doing on Man/van's ID?
How long you need?
Almost there. Okay, 30 seconds.
MEERA:
He’s on the move. I need the
badge now. Somebody stall him.
We are a go.
[RESSLER COUGHING]
Oh, my God.
I'm so sorry.
It's fine, man.
Okay.
ﬁlial/j”):
[EXHALES]
Did you get it on him?
Yes.
[m1
Hey, I'm sorry. I broke our rule.
I shouldn't have walked away upset.
Brian and Katie are having a kid.
It's hard.
Whoa, mama. Hey, is this, like,
an undercover thing tonight?
Because if you need a partner,
I got some pretty good fake IDs.
Zip me up.
Hey, I wanted to ask you something.
So, uh, you know I have
that teacher conference
in Orlando this weekend,
and Iwas thinking
you should come with me.
You know,
just sunshine and beaches
and get away from all this.
Um... Orlando's landlocked.
I'm pretty sure there aren't any beaches.
And that's why I don't teach geography.
I would love that.
Yeah?
We could use a vacation.
Pssh. Tell me about it.
Just you and me.
Do you wanna maybe go undercover
before you go undercover?
RAYMOND:
We have a problem.
I had my people run background
on the guest list for tonight's event.
The file's on the ottoman.
Rasil Kalif, notorious playboy,
works as a cultural attache
in the Syrian embassy.
Apparently, Madeline's been
seeing him for some time.
Why is that a problem?
Cultural attache is Kalif's cover.
Truth is, he's been recruited
as an asset by the Russian Bratva,
he's a mobster.
My guess, he's the one
who hired Maddie to steal
the effigy.
Right about now, she's walking
into the embassy as his date.
What?
You said her profile was too high
and she wasn't going.
Well, she is.
Why would she hire us
to steal the effigy
when she's obviously planning
on stealing it herself?
Wow.
And I like your clutch.
What are you wearing?
A tuxedo. I'm your plus-one.
You can't get into that embassy.
Oh, yes, I can.
Some of my best friends are Syrian.
You act like this is a joke.
There's a digital net over the embassy.
Aram can't access
the surveillance feeds.
I'm going onto foreign soil to steal
a priceless artifact with no backup.
You have me.
And I'm not gonna let anything
happen to you.
[m1
You wanted to see me, sir?
Close the door.
I meant what I said to Reddington.
This thing with Fowler,
wherever she is,
whatever happened,
I'm gonna get to the bottom of it.
We didn't have a lot in common,
but she put this task force together,
made it possible.
Without her, none of this
would have happened.
You're talking in the past tense.
Agent Malik, you know as well as I
that Diane Fowler is never
walking into this facility again.
As far as I'm concerned,
this is a murder investigation,
and Reddington is our chief suspect.
He was convinced
that Fowler was our mole.
I don't care what he thinks.
Even if Reddington's right
and Fowler was dirty,
he's notjudge, jury and executioner.
He can'tjust kill her.
That's not the way it works.
Find out what he knows.
Who did he talk to?
What evidence did he have?
I wanna know everything.
[m1
[CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYING]
[PEOPLE CHATTERING]
There's Madeline.
Think she beat us to it?
Stay on task.
We have two minutes
to access the security door.
[SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY]
Shall we?
Lizzy, I know this must be
very difficult for you,
but we can't both lead.
[le SIGHS]
How did you know about Omaha?
I didn't.
You're the one who brought it up.
Well, it was a heartwarming story.
The night manager and the alley.
I made it up.
[RAYMOND LAUGHS]
You're not a cop tonight.
You're a criminal.
And you're gonna be fine.
Just be yourself.
The security door is behind you.
Twenty feet on your right.
Okay, I'm gonna need a distraction.
Be yourself.
[BEEPS]
RAYMOND:
Mind if I cut in?
[DOOR CLOSES]
[SPEAKS |N ARABIC]
What are you doing here, Madeline?
What are you doing here, Red?
I came to watch you.
Thank you.
You still wear the hell out of a tux.
RAYMOND:
My plane is 15 minutes from here.
We could be in Tegucigalpa
by breakfast.
MADELINE:
The girl, tell me about her.
What would you like to know?
How did you pick her?
Fate.
She's a little young for you.
You think?
Last summer,
what happened in Florence?
What happened to you?
You left me alone.
I deserve an explanation.
I was serious about Tegucigalpa.
What do you think?
Right now.
What happened in Florence?
[BEEPING]
[ALARM WAILING]
Come. I need to get you
to the safe room.
[m1
[GUNSHOTS
AND PEOPLE SCREAMING]
[MAN SPEAKING ARABIC]
MAN [OVER PA]:
All embassy dignitaries
will head to the safe room.
Quick, quick, quick. Hurry.
Shh, shh.
There was a man. He had a gun.
The man had a gun.
[BOTH GRUNTING]
MAN 1 [OVER RADIO]:
Suspect spotted in stairwell A-2.
Reddington. It's him.
He's the one who did this. Call security.
[MAN 2 SPEAKING ARABIC]
[m1
[IN EFFEMINATE VOICE]
There you are.
What the hell happened to you?
You just leave me stranded
with that awful Algerian?
He's been hitting on me for 20 minutes.
Sir, this is a secure area.
Well, not secure enough
if you ask me, sister.
You know what?
Why don't you ask Rasil?
We wouldn't even be here
if it weren't for that troublemaker.
Always an agenda with him.
Cultural attache. Culture, my ass.
The things I do for this one.
Gallivanting around the globe
for your little assignations
with you-know-hm-hm.
Carrying her furs and bikinis,
as if I wouldn't rather be in
Dutchess County with my shelties.
Hey, don't take anything
for granted.
Everything you have was bought
and paid for by your boyfriend.
Do you have any idea
whose horn this tramp is blowing?
Let's just say it starts
with Bashar and ends with Assad,
gassing you faster than a Sunni.
So let's get her out of the hot seat
and into a limo--
Good God. Crumbs up.
What?
Your cummerbund. Pleats up.
You look like Bob Yoshimura
in eighth-grade swing choir.
It's upside down.
[IN NORMAL VOICE]
Unh! God, that hurts. Oh!
What the hell was that?
I don't know. Itjust felt
so right in the moment.
Where's Pratt?
Gone.
And the effigy?
Gone with her.
I have what you want.
When you've wired payment, I'll contact
you with the location of the effigy.
If I don't hear from you within the hour,
it's gone.
[m1
Where the hell is Reddington?
He told me he was trying to locate Pratt.
For all we know, he set up this thing
so he could get the identities
of Russian spies
damaging national security.
Syrians know the safe
was opened as a distraction
and are trying to account for exactly who
was in that panic room with the effigy.
They're attributing
the whole heist to Reddington.
[m1
She knew where the effigy was
the entire time and used us to get it.
Got me to set off the alarm
and she used Reddington's notoriety to
get the Syrians to believe that he took it.
We got something. The SIM card
Keen took from Pratt's phone.
This is a list of outgoing calls
made over the past two weeks.
Several calls were to a mosque
outside of Arlington.
Homeland has a person of
interest tied to that mosque.
Cleric named Firas Ashear.
And he's connected how?
RESSLER: We're not sure.
Biggest red flag
is his family's connection
to the People's Liberation Alliance.
Extremist organization out of Aleppo.
Apparently, the father
is a local warlord with financial ties.
Find him. Bring him in for questioning.
Hey. Tickets have been booked,
bags are being packed,
and we are all set to fly out
first thing tomorrow.
Tom...
Don't tell me. Work.
There's nothing I can do.
There's never anything you can do,
because your job
has now become our life.
What do you want me to say?
You don ’t have to say anything.
I'm gonna change my ticket.
I'll fly tonight.
Tonight? What? Wait.
No, I'm not gonna wait.
[m1
I think some time apart
might be the best thing for us.
That is the last thing I want.
It's not always
about what you want, Liz.
You want me to rough him up
for you?
[SIGHS]
I hate this job.
How do you know Madeline Pratt?
She called me last month,
asked about the effigy.
Never met her,
and I don't know how she found me.
RESSLER:
So why'd she call you, then?
ASHEAR:
Because the Effigy of Astarte
once belonged to my father.
He stole it from the British Museum.
He was a patriot who revered Astarte.
He thought it belonged in Syria.
Then why put it up for auction?
He didn't. As I told Ms. Pratt,
my father only possessed the effigy
for a few months
until Americans raided our compound.
Looking for what?
All I remember is opening a door
and seeing him holding the statue.
He slipped something inside it,
a piece of paper.
RESSLER:
What did it say?
I don't know.
But he placed the effigy in my arms
and told me to run and protect it.
I was 7.
When the Americans found me,
they took the statue as a trophy.
They let me go...
but my father...
What happened to your father?
I never saw him again.
For me, that was the day he died.
The CIA sanctioned a covert op
to raid the compound
of AI Hakam Ashear
in early December, 1983.
The agency
received credible intelligence
Ashear had met with a former
KGB agent to purchase information.
What information?
Ashear paid $3 million for
the location of the Kungur Six,
which, according to the son's story,
he hid in the base of the statue.
So it appears the six aren't people.
What do you mean?
During the Cold War,
there were rumors
that Russia was able to hide
several nuclear weapons in America.
Those weren't rumors.
Pratt was hired to steal
the effigy because inside it
are directions to those weapons.
The Kungur Six are not Russian agents.
They're nuclear bombs.
Hidden all across the country.
Tell me about the coordinates.
What coordinates?
Stop it.
I had a little talk with Rasil.
We had a few laughs,
compared notes about you.
He told me all about that delightful
thing you do with a trouser belt,
which was a bit hurtful,
since I was pretty sure
it was our thing.
The coordinates.
It's over.
You were played. Go home.
You really want to know
why I brought you into this?
Florence.
Because you didn't show.
Florence was everything.
Our way out, a fresh start.
But to you, it's all just a job.
Heh. Tegucigalpa? Honestly?
If I was interested in having an affair,
I'd find a man with hair.
[CAR DOOR OPENS]
[RAYMOND & MADELINE GRUNTING]
[DOOR CLANGING]
[MEN SPEAKING ARABIC]
[m1
Raymond.
Raymond, is that you?
[RAYMOND COUGHS]
Raymond, say something.
MEERA:
RA-115 suitcase nukes.
This is the kind of device
the KGB would smuggle
into the US. at the time.
Each bomb has about 50 pounds
of high-explosive material,
blast radius of nearly 2000 feet.
You place one of these
near a high-profile target,
the fallout guarantees
mass casualties.
Get a nest team on standby.
Where are we on Kalif?
We confirmed
Reddington's allegation.
Rasil Kalif is an asset working
undercover for the Russian mafia.
If they get their hands on these nukes,
God knows who they may sell them to.
[GROANS]
The Syrians aren't getting
the effigy back.
It's gone.
I've already sold it to the Russians.
I ran out of gas.
Huh?
I was so excited to get home,
I didn't even bother to look.
My head was just...
I ran out of gas.
What are you talking about?
It was Christmas Eve.
I pulled off to the side of the road.
Seemed like it had been
snowing for days.
No traffic. No cars to come help.
Just me and a car full of gifts.
It was more than 20 years ago.
I must have walked four miles,
five, maybe.
It was so still.
Just cold and white.
The whole time, all I could think
about was them in our house.
The warm light in the windows,
the smoke from the chimney.
The sound of my daughter
at the piano.
The smell of the tree and the fire,
oyster stew on the stove.
I was so upset to think
that I'd ruined Christmas for them,
being late,
leaving the gifts in the car.
But the closer I got,
the more I realized
how funny the whole thing was,
how much they'd love the story,
Daddy running out of gas.
How every Christmas
they'd get such joy
from telling that story at my expense.
And then, finally,
I got there.
I walked...
I walked through the door.
And there was...
just blood.
All I saw was blood.
All there was was blood.
Ican...
I can still smell the nape of her neck.
[m1
Feel her little...
fingers on my cheek.
Her whisper in my ear.
That's why I didn't
show up in Florence.
It's why I haven't shown up
in a lot of places over the years.
[FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING]
[MAN SPEAKING ARABIC]
MADELINE:
No, don't. Please, please.
No, please. Stop. Please, stop.
Please, stop. Please, come back!
I'll tell you what you want to know.
Now, I gave you what you wanted.
Where is he?
No.
We have the location of the effigy.
You son of a...
RAYMOND: Yes.
You'll never get to it in time.
Damn you, Reddington!
Damn you, Raymond!
You let me out of here right now,
you son of a bitch!
Was it true?
That story about your family?
Was any of it true?
We should have gone to Tegucigalpa.
[m1
We have to assume
we're late to the party, so...
Watch your backs.
RESSLER: Come on.
Go. Go.
AGENT 1: Clear.
AGENT 2: Clear.
[m1
[BOTH SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
Rasil's just bailed out.
Cover me.
[GUNFIRE]
[BOTH GRUNTING]
COOPER: ERT examined the statue.
There was nothing inside,
no coordinates.
No papers of any kind,
nothing on Kalif or any of his men.
It appears Madeline sent us
on a good old-fashioned snipe hunt.
I sent a team to the warehouse
where we could find Pratt.
She was gone. Where is she?
Why? Let's talk about the effigy.
The idea that it actually contained
anything was obviously a myth.
Or maybe Madeline
double-crossed the Russians
and kept the coordinates
to the nukes for herself
You have them.
While you were chasing the effigy,
I was coming to terms with Madeline.
In a moment of...
weakness,
she gave me the coordinates.
You knew there's nothing inside the
effigy when you sent us after Kalif.
Thought you might have
a passing interest in rounding up
some Russian mobsters.
The coordinates. Where are they?
Relax, Harold.
I have no use for rusty Russian
firecrackers left over from the '60s
You want the effigy.
And you want the bombs.
How about a trade?
[m1
[LINE RINGING]
TOM [ON RECORDING]:
Hi, you've reached Tom Keen.
I’m away from my phone right now,
but leave a message--
Case file on Pratt.
You taking off already?
Yeah. Meeting Audrey for dinner.
I think he's gonna leave me.
J‘ All my life J‘
J‘ There you go J‘
No. Go. You have dinner.
She'll understand.
J‘ All my life J‘
J‘ There they go J‘
J‘ Oh, please stay J‘
J‘ Anyway J‘
J‘ All my life J‘
J‘ There you go J‘
J‘ Oh, please stay J‘
Hi. Uh, Tom Keen checking in.
Mr. Keen.
Alone, right?
J‘ All my life J‘
J‘ There they go
Oh, please stay J‘J‘
Hello.
RAUGHS]
May I help you?
Special Agent Walter Gary Martin.
D.C. Bureau.
Let me just start by saying
the director values
all the work you're doing here.
Personally, I can't think of anyone
better suited for the job.
Your office said you wanted
to talk about Diane Fowler.
Absolutely. I tell you what. Heh.
I've heard people talk about the
Post Office, but this facility...
Heh.
Now, look, I don't want to sound
any alarm bells,
but I've become aware of the fact
you've tasked one of your agents
to investigate the disappearance
of Diane Fowler.
Is that a problem?
The disappearance
of the head of the Criminal Division is
a situation we need to manage carefully.
What does that mean?
You need to stop.
but this is coming from up top.
The investigation into
the disappearance of Diane Fowler
is being handled by the DC. Bureau.
If we have any questions, we'll call.
I asked Agent Malik to look into--
You need to stop.
I've been cleared Level 4.
I'm gonna need all your case files.
Listen, Agent Martin--
To be abundantly clear,
the DC. field office is running point.
It's protocol.
We'll take it from here.
[m1